This is John 6 verses 47 through 58.
Very truly I tell you the one who believes has eternal life.
I am the bread of life.
Your ancestors ate the manna and the wilderness, yet they died.
But here is the bread that comes down from heaven, which anyone may eat and not die.
I am the living bread that came down from heaven.
Whoever eats this bread will live forever.
The spread is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world."
Then the Jews began to argue sharply among themselves.
How can this man give us his flesh to eat?
Jesus said to them, very truly I tell you, unless you eat the flesh of the Son of man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.
Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood has eternal life and I will raise them up at the last day.
For my flesh is real food and my blood is real drink.
Whoever eats my flesh and drinks my blood remains in me and I in them.
Just as the living Father sent me and I live because of the Father, so the one who feeds on me will live because of me.
This is the bread that came down from heaven.
Your ancestors ate manna and died, but whoever feeds on this bread will live forever.
This is the word of the Lord.
Thanks be to God.
May we be good hearers of the Word and better doers.
May we love Jesus deeply.
May we trust what Jesus says.
And may we follow Jesus well.
You may be seated.
The farm was bountiful, wide fields, fruitful trees, water in the troughs, hay in the barn, grain in the buckets.
You'd think the land itself was generous.
Early afternoon when the farmer poured out the feed, the whole place came alive, but no one more than the pig.
He was the loudest.
He'd trot up first, snort and holler with ridiculous glee.
Like the food was a surprise every day, messy, noisy, unbothered.
But the farmer watched closely.
When the chickens got shoved, the pig made space.
When the ducklings showed up late, he let them in.
Then he ate happy.
And when he'd had enough, he flopped down in the sun content.
That's when the looks started.
A few animals glanced at each other, then at the pig, stretched out like typical.
Across the yard, the rabbit was the one everyone admired.
Quiet, clean, neat little greens, the kind of eater that others thought of, now that's discipline.
But the farmer noticed something.
The rabbit was always, always nibbling.
And when another animal wandered too close to the rabbit, pulled his pile nearer and kept chewing, the farmer crouched beside his kids, nodding toward the yard.
And he said softly, all right, tell me, who do you want to learn to eat like?
I had it wrong.
I used to think that the pig
was a demonstration of gluttony.
It's obvious and it can be spotted a mile away.
I grew up watching The Biggest Loser.
Anyone else?
Sorry.
And without realizing it, I absorbed a message and it was this.
You can tell who the glutton is just by looking.
But in time I've learned gluttony doesn't necessarily have much to do with a plate or body size.
You can be training for a marathon, eating perfect and still live with a gluttonous disordered appetite.
But before we go any further, I just want to name that this subject is tender for many of us.
It genuinely is for me.
I'm not saying that for clout, like actually it's a tender subject for me.
There's a lot of pain that's wrapped up in eating.
body image, health conditions, genetics, family patterns, and then socioeconomics, food access, all of it.
So hear me clearly, family.
This is not an evaluation of your body.
It's an invitation to examine our hearts, habits, and discipleship, especially the subtle, edible, unnoticed daily patterns.
So as we walk through this teaching together, treat yourself like Jesus treats you.
If something tender comes up in you, feel free.
Pause from listening to me.
Just like tune me out and bring that thing that's coming up in you to Jesus.
He can help you there.
Personally, I'm on a journey with eating.
And so I'm not speaking here as someone who's strong in this area.
I'm actually leaning on the wisdom of the church and just inviting you to journey with me.
Can we do this together?
I'm not rhetorical.
Beautiful.
Let's relearn what gluttony actually is.
So here's the first thing I learned.
Gluttony is not just one thing, it actually has five manifestations.
This goes back to Gregory the Great and was later summarized by Thomas Aquinas.
Gregory was a pastor in the early church, Aquinas was a teacher in the medieval church.
They were in different centuries, but they had the same goal.
Help Christians name what deforms us so we can be healed and whole.
See, the five gluttons fall into two categories, two distortions of what we eat, and three distortions of how we eat.
Here are the five.
One, fastidious, a word you use regularly.
Or too daintily, it's the gluttony of delicacy, it's the picky eater.
Not allergies or health constraints, but small preferences, which at first doesn't seem like gluttony.
It's also refusing hospitality because it's not clean enough, not my ingredients, not my preference, not my culture.
Heart posture is, eating must be on my terms.
Second, sumptuous.
It means too luxurious.
This is chasing for special, not just nourishment.
I need the good version, the elevated version, the curated version.
In a city like ours, it's not always the Michelin star restaurant.
It's the endless hunt for the best coffee.
The best restaurant, the perfect bite.
Oh, have you tried this place yet?
Oh my gosh, it's so much better.
I had two conversations about the same type of food in the last 48 hours about the best barbecue in Portland.
See, it's when enough can feel like disappointment.
The heart posture, eat only the best.
Three, hastily or too fast.
It's rushed eating, wolfing it down, eating on the run, because you can't tolerate waiting.
It's instant gratification that only gratifies for an instant.
The heart posture, I must have pleasure now.
Four, ravenously, too greedily.
This is the grasping one, the scarcity mindset, grabbing before serving, beating others to the best or the last portion.
It's piling the plate high.
It's the rabbit pulling his food a little bit.
closer.
It looks like my friend hiding his David bars from his kids after he's already eaten one.
By the way, my friend forgot what cookie dough should it taste like.
But it also looks like me.
Three months ago, Yinka and I had our daughter, Yifei, our first baby.
Yes.
Correct.
Yeah.
The cutest human alive, sorry to all your other parents, she wins.
And a number of folk they, I know, she's so cute, we should probably take the picture off because you won't hear anything else I'm gonna say at this point.
But a number of folk in our community who I'm really grateful for, you guys gave meals to our family during this time and it meant the world to us.
But not to publicly rate them, but if I did have to give an award for the most memorable meal, it was the homemade Korean bulgogi.
Yeah, yeah, that's the correct response.
It was unreal.
Now, I remember it's on the counter.
I'm in the living room.
I don't remember if I'm holding our daughter or if I'm just watching TV.
But my best friend who has our door code just walks in the house and what does my wife offer him?
The bulgogi, yes.
And now as a virtuous Christian, what do I do?
I get annoyed and start texting her, do not give him the bulgogi.
Don't give it to him.
See, the heart posture is grasp as much as I can.
I need it first.
And number five, excessively or too much.
This is the most familiar type of gluttony.
It's eating past fullness, drinking too much.
It's not because you're hungry or thirsty, but because you want more.
It's that moment in the hunger games where the feast is overflowing, so they drink something to throw up.
You mean this will make me puke?
Of course, so you can keep on eating.
The heart posture is, I refuse limits once I'm enjoying it.
So gluttony is eating or drinking too daintily, too sumptuously, too hastily, too greedily, or too much.
Or in other words, overly picky, overly luxurious, rushed, grasping, or excessive.
Do you see yourself yet?
Rebecca DeYoung in her incredible book says, it's like this.
This vice gluts on pleasure.
reducing human life to self gratification.
See, gluttony isn't mainly about the amount.
It's about the heart posture and the appetite underneath it.
And to be clear, gluttony isn't just about food and eating.
It's about drink to alcohol included.
The desire that says, I need this.
I must have this.
This will satisfy me.
Which is why gluttony can be indulgent and uncontrolled or controlled and yet still dominated by food and drink.
That's where the words of the apostle Paul are so helpful.
He says, I will not be mastered by anything, 1 Corinthians 6.
And then he warns about people whose God is their belly.
See, biblically, eating and drinking is connected to who we worship.
Someone say worship.
See, that means gluttony isn't only a problem of appetite.
It's a problem of allegiance.
So the question isn't only what or how much did I eat?
but which kingdom is my eating rehearsing?
Which takes us to scripture.
Genesis chapter one and two.
See, the first thing God says to humans is be fruitful and multiply.
But the first time the word command is actually used in scripture.
It's you are free to eat from any tree in the garden, but you must not eat from the tree
of the knowledge of good and evil.
It's like God is saying, welcome to the world, baby.
Receive it, trust me.
Let me define what's good.
So from the beginning, eating is a confession.
I'm a creature.
I'm not self-sufficient.
I live by gift.
And then the first rupture in the human story, Genesis chapter three, it's around eating.
Interesting.
The snake prompts the question that's underneath every bite that you and I take each day.
Will you live a life that trusts God and receives from him or will you take?
So the humans that eat apart from God and eating becomes independence instead of communion.
And as you keep reading scripture, you start to realize that this theme never really goes away.
Exodus 16 and Deuteronomy 8, God saves and rescues his people.
He leads them into the wilderness and then eating becomes the test.
Take what you need for today and don't hoard.
because food is how God trains and trains our trust and shapes who his people are becoming.
And then all through Israel's story, meals, they're tied to worship and belonging.
There's covenant meals, festival meals, eating God's presence.
Some scholars argued that the whole sacrificial temple system, all of the cleaning, all of the sacrifices really aimed at one main thing.
How do we eat a meal with God?
So eating becomes one of the ways that God says, you belong to me and you belong to each other.
Scripture, if you're starting to notice, does not treat eating as a neutral act.
How we eat and what we eat reveal who we trust, serve, and belong to.
In other words, eating may be one of the most formational parts of my life.
Then the prophets, they come in hot as they usually do.
That's why a lot of us skip them when we read, you know?
Just like, many things are tense.
Amos 5 and 6, Isaiah 58.
The prophets don't just say, be faithful to God.
They start to ask, what does your eating do to the poor?
Who has bread and who doesn't?
And why?
See, scripture starts to argue something that's really important for us to hear as Americans.
If you claim your God's people, but your eating leaves others empty, something is off.
See, and that tension is littered throughout the whole New Testament.
Eating is continuously a discipleship issue.
Even the Lord's supper became a moment of misalignment for the church while some are gorging and eating a ton while others are left hungry because our tables, they can proclaim God's kingdom or they can contradict it.
And then we get to the end of scripture, the book of Revelation.
There's a wedding supper, a healed world, a new creation, another tree, salvation described like a feast.
On this mountain the Lord will make a feast for all peoples and swallow up death forever.
So you see God, he's not just interested in saving souls and ripping us to heaven far away.
He is restoring communion.
He's feeding bodies and he's healing desires to which we should all say like, thank you God.
That's the work that he's up to.
So our story begins with eating with God, turns to disordered eating and then it ends with restored eating.
So biblically eating is for communion
gratitude, dependence, justice, joy, and foretasting God's kingdom.
If that's what eating is for, then the way that we eat is never neutral.
See, it's either training us into that vision or it's deforming us away from it.
The scripture, it seems to assume something that
our city would have us forget, and our enlightened world would have us forget.
Eating is formational.
Eating is spiritual.
And eating reveals belonging and allegiance.
Which means gluttony isn't only too much.
Gluttony is when my eating preaches a false gospel.
I will fill myself by myself for myself.
Or in Paul's language, their God is their belly.
So we should ask, if eating is this spiritually loaded, what allegiance is our city forming us to have through the way we eat?
See, every meal is a little liturgy that over time it shapes what we love.
Our food, it cataclyses us.
And if we don't pay attention, it will deform us subtly and slowly and almost unnoticeably meal by meal.
So eating is for, like I said, communion
Gratitude, dependence, justice, joy, and foretasting.
See, but gluttony, what it does is it deforms every one of those purposes.
Communion becomes isolation.
We eat alone, on the run, in cars, at desks, in front of screens.
See, we live in a world where you can eat three meals a day and never look another person in the eye.
Gratitude becomes commodity.
Food and drink become product or fuel or transaction or self-medication, no longer a gift.
Dependence becomes self-sufficiency.
When eating was meant to be a daily confession that I live by the generous gift of our loving Father, but our prosperity in a country like this, it trains us to live by control by the things that I can actually grasp on my own strength and resources.
Then justice becomes injustice.
See, eating is never isolated.
It's ecological and it's social.
There's a ton of research and study on this, but right now, like today, humans, we grow enough food to feed every person on the planet.
Like, we could end hunger in a second if we really wanted to.
But one in 10 people in the world is chronically undernourished.
Wealthy countries waste as much as a third of our food.
We consume a disproportionate share of the world's grain, meat, and water.
And so when I never ask how my food got here, I'm forming into someone who can benefit from harm and not feel it.
My cheap strawberry might just be someone else's aching back or polluted river.
Then joy becomes mandanity.
Gluttony just turns eating into a quick fix, and food loses its wonder.
Lastly, our foretasting becomes a false gospel.
You know, meals were meant to rehearse God's inbreaking kingdom.
The way that we each declare a story about the kingdom that we're a part of and the reality that we live in.
But gluttony, it trains us in the kingdoms of this age that are passing away through subtle daily liturgies of self-indulgence.
We don't become that sort of people overnight.
It happens subtly, snack by snack, meal by meal, eating in a food and pleasure city like ours.
It's not always expensive, but it's really, really, really good.
The story though, we're subtly being sold as food and drink are for my pleasure.
They're for getting full and they're for taking the edge off.
But practices of consumption left unchecked will form us into consumers, which God never made us to be.
Slowly we don't notice what we become and the tragedy is it doesn't even satiate or satisfy us like God desires to.
It deforms us and leaves us with less than we started with.
Growing up I was really close to my grandpa on my dad's side.
He, I called him Batman and I was robbing.
He had one of those cars back in the 90s that like then it could talk.
He was like please fasten your seat belts.
So that was the Batmobile.
To the point where one day my dumb child would take a rock and sketch the back, man, logo into the car, yeah.
And he loved me so much that he didn't, he was like, we're actually fine.
And my dad was like, what?
He's like, sucks to be the favorite.
But my grandpa was probably like my closest friend, my first friend.
And I remember in 2001, I was nine years old and
We went to Ethiopia to go meet my mom's mom for the first time.
There's a long story there, but my mom had never met her parents.
She's an amputee, all this sort of stuff.
We went to Ethiopia to go find her in this small little village and we got to meet her.
And I remember we were like, it was like a 30 day trip all December.
And I remember, even as a kid, something felt weird, like something was going on.
And we are flying home, we leave early.
And all of a sudden I just can't stop crying.
Like I'm just crying and crying and crying and I'm uncontrollably vomiting on the plane from crying.
And it's when I walked into my grandma's house and I was like I say, where's grandpa?
And something about my like, wow, it's crazy, it's been so long.
But something in my body knew that he died.
I was nine.
And he was my comfort.
And all of a sudden, I began to eat.
I started to trace my journey and look back.
Eating became a reflex for me.
When my parents went through a divorce, I ate.
When stuff was really hard in college, I ate.
When I was engaged the first time and it fell apart, I ate.
A couple of years ago when I was going through it, I ate.
I can trace the pattern through seasons, really sad seasons, busy seasons, disconnected seasons, Sunday nights when I'm exhausted from a long day of being with y'all.
No.
But when I am tired from ministry and all I want is just a little tree, a little reward, I trained myself to go to the pantry instead of prayer.
Frederick Buchner put it like this, a glutton is one who raids the ice box for a cure for spiritual malnutrition.
With all the justifiable reasons in the world, the thing that was helping me was now deforming me.
So let's pause.
Take a deep breath in.
Let it out slowly.
The most important voice today is not mine.
It's not Gavin's, it's not Nate's, it's not Jess's, it's the Holy Spirit.
So already, Holy Spirit, what are you saying to me?
Let's just pause for a moment.
If it helps you to close your eyes, just close your eyes.
Holy Spirit, what are you already saying to me?
Where am I missing your design for eating or drinking?
Where am I missing, misusing food or drink for something else?
Am I eating or drinking too daintily, too sumptuously, too hastily, too greedily or too much?
How is my eating or my city forming me?
Holy Spirit, what are you saying to me?
Ironically, by lunchtime, you'll probably forget.
So if something comes to mind, we'll just take another moment.
I encourage you to write it down.
It's probably something the Lord might want to do in you more than just today.
Holy Spirit, what are you saying to me?
Take a few more seconds.
Five, four, three,
two and one.
So I recently heard this chilling monologue.
I couldn't get out of my head.
They said, you rarely destroy your life in a single moment.
It's usually a series of moments over time.
When reality finally comes crashing down on me, I could see every one of those moments perfectly lined up as if it was all by my own design.
So the question wasn't, how did this thing happen to me?
The only real question was, how did I not see it coming?
See, that's what gluttony does.
We eat every day, several times a day, and it is doing something to us.
It's leading us somewhere.
So maybe the question of today isn't only, am I struggling with gluttony?
Maybe the question is, the first one we asked today through that story, who do I want to learn to eat like?
Or said another way.
And it might sound silly, but take me seriously.
How can I learn to eat like Jesus?
Have you ever thought about that before?
I can actually learn how to eat like Jesus.
See, something happens when God in flesh steps into the world and continuously eats.
He shows us what it looks like to be fully human with a healed appetite in God's kingdom.
So Jesus' appetite and his eating, it's not just vision or inspiration or motivation, it's training and discipleship.
See, now many will assume that the answer to gluttony then is restriction and they expect this sermon to then lead with the practice of fasting.
But in the garden, the first command wasn't, don't eat, but you're free to eat.
See, gift and bounty comes first.
Read the Gospels and you'll notice Jesus is constantly at weddings, at dinner parties, and holiday meals.
He is constantly feasting.
See, he talks about the kingdom as a feast because feasting, it's not abstract to him.
This matter is because the answer to gluttony isn't just stop enjoying things.
Jesus is hear me.
Jesus is not that kind of human.
Grace Hammond put it, hating the body and its gift goes beyond bad self-esteem.
It's a heresy.
An attentive measured love for the body belongs to a people who worship God with us.
The word became flesh, the bread of life who feeds us with himself.
So the goal is to become people who can enjoy food and drink without worshiping it.
That's why the church has always practiced rhythms of fasting and feasting.
Someone say feasting.
See, Lent, which is coming up, is a 40-day season of fasting, but it's 40 days because the six Sundays are a weekly Easter feast.
Then, right after Easter, is Easter tide, a 50-day season of feasting on resurrection life.
So we fast for 40 days and then we feast for 50.
That's what resurrection life does in us.
So in the coming weeks, here's an invitation, plan a great meal.
Like for real, plan a great meal, put down devices and then feast like your children of a different sort of kingdom.
Now notice who Jesus feasts with, tax collectors, sinners.
Outsiders the unclean the poor Luke 5 and 19 see people were not mainly scandalized by Jesus's sermons They were scandalized by his table Because to eat with someone is to say you belong with me So they begin to call him a glutton and a drunkard a friend of sinners They're trying to insult him, but they're actually preaching the gospel Jesus is a friend of sinners
And his table becomes their place of healing, repentance, and new life.
Do your meals do that?
Not just for friends, but for the overlooked.
For the person you greeted today, but you forgot their name.
Not just me.
I'll be honest.
The person who's kind of awkward.
The person who's not a great hang.
The person who can't take you to a nice restaurant or host you.
Do we eat like Jesus?
See, Jesus isn't just eating and feasting.
He's feeding the hungry again and again because in His kingdom, eating is not detached from love.
See, where the world aims for, I'm full.
In the kingdom we aim for, there were no needy among them.
So we practice feasting and feeding the hungry.
It's hospitality and generosity.
It's sharing your bread.
turn strangers into kin and don't forget the hungry.
Then Jesus shows the other side of healed desire, fasting.
Right after Jesus is baptized and named the beloved son, the spirit leads him into the wilderness, Matthew 4 and Luke 4.
Now notice that his first test, it isn't sex, it's not money, it's not power, it's eating.
And Jesus refuses, not because food is bad,
but because eating is never just eating.
He answers, to be truly human, we cannot live by bread alone.
Or in other words, I won't ask for food to give me what only God can and wants to.
And right there, Jesus begins healing what's wrong in the human story.
So we as his followers, we practice fasting.
Fasting, it's freedom in training.
It's abstaining from food or types of food to tell our desires that they are not our master.
To tell the world that we live by a different sort of king and kingdom.
It's how we prepare our bodies for resurrection life.
So this Wednesday, our sisters and brothers all over the world are going to begin Lent.
It's a participation in Jesus's wilderness.
through fasting.
It's a training season in his kind of freedom, not only with our minds, but with our bodies.
So you can fast lunch, or till sundown, or sugar, or meat, or eating out.
You can give part of your grocery budget away.
You can eat the same dinner every day.
You can simply ask Jesus, what does he want you to do?
See, Jesus does assume that we will fast.
Do you remember what in the Sermon on the Mount, he says, when you give to the poor, when you pray and when you fast, it's just an assumption of his that we'll be people who fast, but then he warns that we can miss the point.
See, fasting is a means, but it's not the end goal.
So when we are, let me be honest, when I reward myself or I binge in the gluttony after feasting to make up for what I think I really want, I'm missing it.
Now, for some of us, hear me.
Fasting from food isn't the wisest first step, especially if you've wrestled with disordered eating or you're pregnant or nursing or you're managing health conditions or a number of good reasons.
So the broader category is renunciation.
It's saying no to good things to open ourselves to say yes to God.
Renunciation is a wise omramp for many of us.
So hear me, maybe you need to just not fast and do renunciation.
And if it's within your reach,
Don't miss fasting from actual food.
That's the real definition of food, of a fasting.
To the church, it has fasted weekly and seasonally because we have an embodied spirituality.
There is a temptation for me that I fall into in too many seasons of my life.
It's to miss my body in the formation.
I do the stuff that makes sense to me of how I want to be formed.
I can tell how service is gonna form.
I can tell how reading scripture, how prayer, how all these other things, but God might just wanna form me through not my mind, but my stomach.
See, it's a temptation for me to not follow Jesus on one of his most tried and true practices toward freedom.
So if it's within your reach, consider fasting from food with the global church.
And if it's not, do renunciation.
Last week's community guide has an exercise to help you choose what to fast and or renounce.
So don't just think about it, pick something, anything.
And then we're going to talk about it in community each week through Lent.
So this week we'll gather as communities.
We'll talk about that.
And then for Ash Wednesday, we'll come together to begin our Lenten journey in the wilderness.
Finally, Jesus takes eating to its deepest place.
He declares, I am the bread of life.
Actually, I wanna say that again slowly.
Would you hear it not as my words, but Jesus?
I am the bread of life.
Unless you eat the flesh of the son of man and drink his blood, you have no life in you.
Jesus is saying that if you want life of a new age, take me fully into you.
Let me nourish you and replace what has been filling you.
And then Jesus does not just leave that as a metaphor.
On the night before the cross, he takes bread
gives thanks, breaks it, and gives it, Eucharist.
So Eucharist isn't like a high church or a fancy way of saying communion for the really intelligent people.
Eucharist actually is the word that simply means not communion, but give thanks.
So at meals, Jesus would Eucharist.
He did not bless the food.
He would give thanks or bless God for the food.
He says, eat then in remembrance of me.
which y'all rememberance, when Jesus saying that, he's not saying, remember what I did for you.
It's not mental recall.
It's what the Psalmist meant when he prayed, God, I'm in the pit.
Would you remember me?
See, it's not memory.
It's active presence and participation.
Jesus is inviting us to be present to and actively participate in his kingdom and in his life through the way that we eat.
So we eat in a way that remembers or participates with him.
So week after week, meal after meal, Jesus, he reforms our hunger.
He teaches us not to ask bread or food or drink to be our savior because every good bite was always meant to just be a signpost, not the destination.
I mean, wouldn't it be crazy if you're like,
trying to get to a bend and you just stopped at the sign on the freeway.
That's insane.
You're like, oh, I made it.
And a waste of your time.
But I do that with eating.
See, eating was always meant to be a small taste of how much God loves me.
everything that goes off in your brain, all the chemicals, all the deliciousness.
I had this corn the other day at Disneyland.
Yes, at Disneyland.
I had this corn with the like, I don't even know what it was called, but I remember, I've never had corn like this.
Like my mouth felt like it was exploding with flavor.
And my best friend looks across from me and he goes, man, God loves us so much.
And we began to talk about, because he knew I was teaching this sermon, we began to talk about, man, what if every good bite of food
was an edible reminder of the love of God.
Like what if I actually believed that God loved me so much that several times a day, bite after bite after bite after bite, God was just trying to get me to chew on his love.
To actually take his love into my body, to actually have a liturgy or a practice of pausing long enough to taste and see that the Lord is good.
Do you eat that way?
Do you see food that way?
God's love made edible.
I'm working too.
And most times I don't.
I was at a party recently, and to be honest, I was feeling mad lonely.
You been there?
You're just like in a room full of people and having a great time, delicious food, and you're just like, just didn't feel like people are interested in me, didn't have great conversation, and it was like everyone else talking.
And so I did what I've trained myself to do, grabbed another plate.
I sat there and I was eating this food.
It was really delicious.
And then I went again and again.
People said hi, hi, but again.
I was chewing and then the strangest thing started to happen to me.
I stopped chewing long enough and felt like the bread of life began to whisper at me.
Jesus felt like he began to say, Christian, what are you looking for?
Christian, there's hunger beneath your hunger.
You're feeling lonely and you're eating trying to satisfy that loneliness, but I'm the bread of life.
I'm here.
And it felt like at that dinner table where I was being deeply ignored and felt so lonely, all of a sudden at this table I became the guest of honor.
It's really kind of Jesus.
He turned a literal table into a place of communion for me.
So what does it look like to
eat like Jesus.
It means eating for communion, for gratitude, for dependence, for justice, for joy and for foretasting.
That's how Jesus ate.
So we train to eat like Jesus through subtle practices like feasting, feeding the hungry and fasting.
But before any of those practices, the first step for all of us is confession.
See, we confess week in and out, day in and out.
And in particular, I have found it really important in my discipleship to Jesus in this season to not only confess my sin, but to confess vice too.
See, sin is often understood as an act of disobedience to God or the things we've left done or undone, but vice is a settled pattern.
It's a bent in my character.
It's a way my desires have been mistrained.
It's a direction my heart keeps going in.
See, Jesus is after sin, but he's also after vice.
Do you remember what he said?
Oh man, it's not enough to just not murder.
He says, oh man, if there's even anger in your heart still, if there's superiority in your heart, he talks about sin and then he goes after the vice.
He says, oh, it's not enough to just not commit adultery.
He says, if you even do the double take, if you even stay on that page, just a little too long, there's something going on in your heart.
Jesus is going after not only the act, but the formation under it because our goal is not to just stop sinning.
Y'all, we want healing of desire.
We want wholeness.
We want to become the sort of people who are people of love.
So we don't just confess, I did this wrong.
We also confess, hey, no one would have saw it, but my heart is aimed wrong.
I'm going towards the wrong nourishment.
I'm becoming this sort of person.
So where am I not eating or drinking like Jesus?
Where am I using eating for something else?
See, gluttony is simply eating and drinking outside of being loved by God, loving my neighbor and letting God love me.
So where do I need to confess gluttony and follow Jesus into healing?
See, there's something deeply, and hear me, slowly healing when we practice confessing to one another.
Or as Carl Barth put it, when we confess our virtues, we are competitors.
When we confess our sins and all advices, we are brothers and sisters.
Don't you long for that?
Healing, life, freedom, a lack of shame,
to be in a community like this, not as competitors, but as sisters and brothers in Christ.
So I have gone to a lot of community groups.
And I have been in a number of text threads, but truthfully it wasn't until the last year or two that I began to confess what has shaped probably my whole life story, gluttony.
I have been learning and stumbling
to trust that confession or learning to like reject the lie that confession leads to shame.
I'm still working to reject that lie.
And then to retrain my heart to trust that confession is actually Jesus's path to life.
So a few things for my actual life have borne as much fruit as regular confession.
I've done it monthly for several years and now I'm doing it daily too in my community group.
For the past few months, we've just been confessing daily in a text, just like Matty said, to the men in my British young community.
And often my confession sounds like this.
I'm still struggling with gluttony.
So I'm not standing here as someone who is fixed or fully proven, but I have discovered something.
See, a lot of my pain and a lot of my misusing food happened in isolation.
So I'm starting to suspect that maybe just maybe Jesus wants to actually heal me in community through subtle practices of feasting together, feeding the hungry together, fasting together and confessing to one another week after week after week.
I'm on the journey toward resurrection life for my body.
And I'm curious, will you join me?
Do not merely listen to the word and so deceive yourselves.
Do what it says.
Anyone who listens to the word but does not do what it says is like someone who looks at his face in a mirror and after looking at himself goes away and immediately forgets what he looks like.
But whoever looks intently into the perfect law that gives freedom and continues in it.
Not forgetting what they have heard but doing it.
They will be blessed in all that they do.
Thanks for joining the Bridgetown family as we engage in this teaching series.
To learn more about the life of our church and how you can get involved, visit Bridgetown.church slash welcome.
If you're interested in contributing financially to Bridgetown Church and to our ministry, you can do that at Bridgetown.church slash giving.
Wherever you're joining us from, we hope this resource blesses you and encourages you to be with Jesus, become like Jesus, and do what Jesus did.